* 1 _The project information I chose to document_
- I chose to document is the `JavaScript Task Manager`. The project is a modular command-line task management application built with JavaScript and Node.js. It provides functionality for creating, organizing, prioritizing, tracking, and synchronizing tasks using a persistent JSON-based storage system.

  The application follows a layered architecture with separate modules for:
  Task data modeling
  Business logic and task management
  Persistent storage
  Command-line interaction
  Task parsing and prioritization utilities
  Task synchronization and conflict resolution
  The system is designed to be lightweight, extensible, and easy to maintain.

___________________

* 2 _The comprehensive README generated using Prompt 1_


@code markdown

# Task Manager

A lightweight, extensible, and maintainable command-line task management application built with Node.js.

Task Manager follows a layered architecture with separate modules for:

* Task data modeling
* Business logic and task management
* Persistent storage
* Command-line interaction
* Task parsing and prioritization utilities
* Task synchronization and conflict resolution

The project is designed to provide a clean developer experience while remaining flexible enough for future expansion.

---

# Features

## Core Task Management

* Create and manage tasks
* Update task statuses
* Assign task priorities
* Add due dates
* Add and remove tags
* Delete tasks

## Task Organization

* Filter tasks by status
* Filter tasks by priority
* View overdue tasks
* View task details

## Persistence

* Automatically save tasks to disk
* Restore tasks from JSON storage

## Statistics & Analytics

* Total task counts
* Tasks grouped by status
* Tasks grouped by priority
* Overdue task tracking
* Recently completed tasks

## Advanced Utilities

* Parse free-form task input
* Rank tasks by importance
* Synchronize task lists
* Automatic conflict resolution

---

# Technologies Used

* Node.js
* Commander
* UUID
* Jest

---

# Installation

## Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed:

* Node.js (v14 or later recommended)
* npm

Verify installation:

```bash
node -v
npm -v
```

---

## Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/task-manager.git
cd task-manager
```

---

## Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

This will install all required packages including:

* commander
* uuid
* jest

---

# Project Structure

```text
task-manager/
│
├── app.js                 # Core business logic
├── cli.js                 # Command-line interface
├── models.js              # Task models and enums
├── storage.js             # Persistent JSON storage
├── task_parse.js          # Free-form task parsing
├── task_priority.js       # Task scoring and ranking
├── task_list_merge.js     # Task synchronization utilities
├── tasks.json             # Persistent task storage
├── package.json
└── README.md
```

---

# Usage

## Run the CLI

```bash
node cli.js
```

To view help:

```bash
node cli.js --help
```

---

# Commands

## Create a Task

```bash
node cli.js create "Finish documentation"
```

With additional options:

```bash
node cli.js create "Finish report" \
  --description "Prepare final project report" \
  --priority 4 \
  --due 2026-06-01 \
  --tags work,urgent
```

### Priority Levels

| Value | Priority |
| ----- | -------- |
| 1     | Low      |
| 2     | Medium   |
| 3     | High     |
| 4     | Urgent   |

---

## List Tasks

List all tasks:

```bash
node cli.js list
```

Filter by status:

```bash
node cli.js list --status todo
```

Filter by priority:

```bash
node cli.js list --priority 4
```

Show overdue tasks:

```bash
node cli.js list --overdue
```

---

## Update Task Status

```bash
node cli.js status <task_id> done
```

Available statuses:

* todo
* in_progress
* review
* done

Example:

```bash
node cli.js status 123abc done
```

---

## Update Task Priority

```bash
node cli.js priority <task_id> 3
```

Example:

```bash
node cli.js priority 123abc 4
```

---

## Update Due Date

```bash
node cli.js due <task_id> 2026-06-10
```

---

## Add a Tag

```bash
node cli.js tag <task_id> backend
```

---

## Remove a Tag

```bash
node cli.js untag <task_id> backend
```

---

## Show Task Details

```bash
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

---

## Delete a Task

```bash
node cli.js delete <task_id>
```

---

## View Statistics

```bash
node cli.js stats
```

Example output:

```text
Total tasks: 12

By status:
  todo: 5
  in_progress: 3
  review: 2
  done: 2

By priority:
  1: 1
  2: 4
  3: 5
  4: 2

Overdue tasks: 3
Completed in last 7 days: 2
```

---

# Free-Form Task Parsing

The project includes utilities for parsing natural-language task input.

## Supported Syntax

| Syntax        | Meaning              |
| ------------- | -------------------- |
| `@tag`        | Add a tag            |
| `!1-4`        | Set numeric priority |
| `!high`       | Set named priority   |
| `#today`      | Set due date         |
| `#tomorrow`   | Due tomorrow         |
| `#friday`     | Due next Friday      |
| `#YYYY-MM-DD` | Explicit due date    |

## Example

```text
Finish report !urgent @work #tomorrow
```

Parsed as:

* Title: Finish report
* Priority: Urgent
* Tag: work
* Due Date: Tomorrow

---

# Task Prioritization Engine

The task prioritization utility calculates a dynamic importance score based on:

* Task priority
* Due dates
* Overdue status
* Tags
* Task status
* Recent updates

This helps identify the most important tasks automatically.

---

# Task Synchronization

The synchronization module merges task lists from local and remote sources.

## Conflict Resolution Rules

* Most recently updated task wins
* Completed tasks override incomplete versions
* Tags are merged automatically
* Status conflicts are resolved intelligently

The merge utility returns:

* Tasks to create remotely
* Tasks to update remotely
* Tasks to create locally
* Tasks to update locally

---

# Configuration

## Storage File

By default, tasks are stored in:

```text
tasks.json
```

You can customize the storage path when creating a `TaskManager` instance:

```js
const manager = new TaskManager('custom_tasks.json');
```

---

# Development

## Run Tests

```bash
npm test
```

---

## Install Jest

If Jest is not already installed:

```bash
npm install --save-dev jest
```

---

# Troubleshooting

## Invalid Date Format

Problem:

```text
Invalid date format. Use YYYY-MM-DD
```

Solution:

Ensure dates use this format:

```text
2026-05-28
```

---

## Tasks Not Persisting

Possible causes:

* Missing write permissions
* Corrupted `tasks.json`
* Invalid JSON format

Try deleting `tasks.json` and rerunning the application.

---

## Module Not Found Errors

Run:

```bash
npm install
```

to reinstall dependencies.

---

## UUID Errors

Ensure the `uuid` package is installed:

```bash
npm install uuid
```

---

# Contributing

Contributions are welcome.

## Steps

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/my-feature
```

3. Commit your changes

```bash
git commit -m "Add new feature"
```

4. Push to your branch

```bash
git push origin feature/my-feature
```

5. Open a pull request

---

# Future Improvements

Potential enhancements include:

* SQLite or database support
* REST API integration
* Web dashboard
* Authentication
* Notifications/reminders
* Recurring tasks
* Cloud synchronization
* Task dependencies
* Search functionality

---

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

You are free to use, modify, and distribute this software.

---

# Author

Created with Node.js for lightweight command-line task management.
@end

___________________

* 3 _The step-by-step guide created using Prompt 2_


@code markdown
# How to Delete a Task in Task Manager

This guide explains how to permanently remove a task from the Task Manager application.

Deleting a task removes it from:

* The in-memory task list
* The persisted `tasks.json` storage file

---

# Prerequisites

Before deleting a task, make sure you have:

* Node.js installed
* The Task Manager project installed locally
* Access to the terminal or command prompt
* At least one existing task in the system

You should also know the task ID of the task you want to remove.

---

# Step 1 — Open Your Terminal

Open a terminal in the root directory of the project.

Example:

```bash
cd task-manager
```

[Placeholder: Screenshot of terminal opened in project folder]

---

# Step 2 — View Existing Tasks

Before deleting a task, list all tasks to find the correct task ID.

Run:

```bash
node cli.js list
```

Example output:

```text
[ ] 4f8a12bc - !! Finish documentation
  Update README and API docs
  Due: 2026-06-01 | Tags: docs,work
  Created: 2026-05-28 14:22:10
--------------------------------------------------
```

The task ID is:

```text
4f8a12bc
```

[Placeholder: Screenshot of task list output]

---

# Step 3 — Copy the Task ID

Copy the ID of the task you want to delete.

Important:

* Make sure you select the correct task
* Deleting a task is permanent
* The task cannot be recovered unless you restore from backup

---

# Step 4 — Run the Delete Command

Use the `delete` command followed by the task ID.

Syntax:

```bash
node cli.js delete <task_id>
```

Example:

```bash
node cli.js delete 4f8a12bc
```

If successful, you will see:

```text
Deleted task 4f8a12bc
```

[Placeholder: Screenshot of successful delete command]

---

# Step 5 — Verify the Task Was Removed

Run the list command again:

```bash
node cli.js list
```

The deleted task should no longer appear.

[Placeholder: Screenshot showing task removed from list]

---

# What Happens Internally

When you delete a task:

1. The CLI sends the request to `TaskManager`
2. `TaskManager` calls the storage layer
3. The task is removed from the in-memory object
4. The updated task list is saved to `tasks.json`

The deletion logic is handled in:

```js
deleteTask(taskId) {
  if (this.tasks[taskId]) {
    delete this.tasks[taskId];
    this.save();
    return true;
  }
  return false;
}
```

[Placeholder: Screenshot of deleteTask function]

---

# Common Mistakes

## Using an Incorrect Task ID

Problem:

```text
Failed to delete task. Task not found.
```

Cause:

* The task ID does not exist
* The task ID was copied incorrectly

Solution:

Run:

```bash
node cli.js list
```

and copy the correct ID again.

---

## Forgetting to Run the Command in the Project Folder

Problem:

```text
Cannot find module './app'
```

Cause:

You are not inside the project directory.

Solution:

Navigate to the project root:

```bash
cd task-manager
```

---

## Accidentally Deleting the Wrong Task

Cause:

Using the wrong task ID.

Solution:

Always verify the task details before deleting.

You can inspect a task first using:

```bash
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

Example:

```bash
node cli.js show 4f8a12bc
```

---

# Troubleshooting

## Problem: Task Still Appears After Deletion

Possible causes:

* The delete command failed
* The application did not save changes
* `tasks.json` could not be updated

Try:

```bash
node cli.js list
```

again after restarting the application.

Also verify that `tasks.json` has write permissions.

---

## Problem: Permission Errors

Example:

```text
EACCES: permission denied
```

Solution:

Ensure the application can modify `tasks.json`.

On Linux/macOS:

```bash
chmod 644 tasks.json
```

---

## Problem: Corrupted tasks.json File

Example:

```text
Error loading tasks
```

Solution:

1. Back up the corrupted file
2. Fix invalid JSON formatting
3. Or remove the file and recreate it

---

# Additional Tips

## Back Up Your Tasks

Before deleting important tasks, consider backing up `tasks.json`.

Example:

```bash
cp tasks.json tasks_backup.json
```

---

## View Task Details Before Deleting

Use:

```bash
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

to confirm the task contents before removal.

---

# Summary

To delete a task:

1. List tasks
2. Copy the task ID
3. Run the delete command
4. Verify removal

Example:

```bash
node cli.js delete 4f8a12bc
```

The task will be removed from both memory and persistent storage.
@end


___________________

* 4 _The FAQ document you created using Prompt 3_


@code markdown

# Task Manager — Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

This FAQ is designed for beginners who may be new to command-line applications.

It explains:

* How to get started
* How to know if commands worked
* Common task management operations
* How to troubleshoot errors
* How to tell the difference between user mistakes and program issues

---

# Getting Started

## What is Task Manager?

Task Manager is a command-line application that helps you:

* Create tasks
* Organize work
* Set priorities
* Add due dates
* Track progress
* Save tasks permanently

Tasks are stored locally on your computer in a file called:

```text id="c99uqz"
tasks.json
```

---

## Do I need programming experience to use this application?

No.

You only need:

* Basic computer skills
* A terminal or command prompt
* Node.js installed

The commands are simple and beginner-friendly.

---

## What is a command line?

The command line (also called a terminal or command prompt) is a text-based interface where you type commands.

Examples:

### Windows

* Command Prompt
* PowerShell

### macOS/Linux

* Terminal

---

## How do I start the application?

Open your terminal inside the project folder and run:

```bash id="x7mryx"
node cli.js
```

To see available commands:

```bash id="n93f7m"
node cli.js --help
```

---

## How do I know if the application is working?

If the application is working correctly, you will see:

* A help menu
* A success message
* A list of tasks
* Or command output

Example:

```text id="u7wgdl"
Created task with ID: 4f8a12bc
```

This means the command succeeded.

---

# Creating Tasks

## How do I create a task?

Run:

```bash id="8zofm4"
node cli.js create "Buy groceries"
```

Example successful output:

```text id="06l0wc"
Created task with ID: a1b2c3d4
```

---

## How do I know if the task was actually created?

After creating a task, run:

```bash id="5ksahh"
node cli.js list
```

If the task appears in the list, it was successfully saved.

Example:

```text id="rmvz6u"
[ ] a1b2c3d4 - !! Buy groceries
```

---

## Can I add more details when creating a task?

Yes.

Example:

```bash id="o3k48r"
node cli.js create "Finish report" --priority 4 --due 2026-06-01 --tags work,urgent
```

---

## What do the priority numbers mean?

| Number | Priority |
| ------ | -------- |
| 1      | Low      |
| 2      | Medium   |
| 3      | High     |
| 4      | Urgent   |

---

## What happens if I enter an invalid date?

Example invalid command:

```bash id="2iz9gi"
node cli.js create "Test" --due tomorrowish
```

You may see:

```text id="b2t5p4"
Invalid date format. Use YYYY-MM-DD
```

This is usually a user input error, not a program failure.

Correct format:

```text id="9zwm6g"
2026-05-28
```

---

# Viewing and Managing Tasks

## How do I view all tasks?

Run:

```bash id="w68aef"
node cli.js list
```

---

## How do I view a specific task?

Run:

```bash id="7yg0eo"
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

Example:

```bash id="1oj1u4"
node cli.js show a1b2c3d4
```

---

## How do I know if a task exists?

Use:

```bash id="3d4wdr"
node cli.js list
```

or:

```bash id="x78l4z"
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

If the task exists, its details will appear.

If not, you will see:

```text id="e4k3dc"
Task not found.
```

---

# Marking Tasks Complete

## How do I mark a task as completed?

Run:

```bash id="db8uy0"
node cli.js status <task_id> done
```

Example:

```bash id="ywqxxp"
node cli.js status a1b2c3d4 done
```

Success message:

```text id="spbq0g"
Updated task status to done
```

---

## How do I confirm the task was completed?

Run:

```bash id="jlwmys"
node cli.js show a1b2c3d4
```

Completed tasks display:

```text id="2o4yhy"
[✓]
```

instead of:

```text id="q2xpm4"
[ ]
```

---

## What statuses are available?

| Status      | Meaning                   |
| ----------- | ------------------------- |
| todo        | Not started               |
| in_progress | Currently being worked on |
| review      | Needs review              |
| done        | Completed                 |

---

# Deleting Tasks

## How do I delete a task?

Run:

```bash id="9z9owk"
node cli.js delete <task_id>
```

Example:

```bash id="7s5sl0"
node cli.js delete a1b2c3d4
```

Success message:

```text id="mwz4ux"
Deleted task a1b2c3d4
```

---

## How do I know if the task was really deleted?

Run:

```bash id="ib4szl"
node cli.js list
```

If the task no longer appears, it was successfully deleted.

---

## Can I recover a deleted task?

Not automatically.

Deleted tasks are permanently removed from:

* Memory
* `tasks.json`

You would need a backup to restore them.

---

# Tags and Due Dates

## How do I add a tag to a task?

Run:

```bash id="fzwz13"
node cli.js tag <task_id> work
```

Example successful output:

```text id="bn2m2q"
Added tag 'work' to task
```

---

## How do I remove a tag?

Run:

```bash id="8mtl0z"
node cli.js untag <task_id> work
```

---

## How do I update a due date?

Run:

```bash id="9e7f6e"
node cli.js due <task_id> 2026-06-10
```

---

# Understanding Success vs Errors

## How do I know if a command succeeded?

Most successful commands display messages like:

```text id="r8w80q"
Created task with ID: ...
Updated task status to done
Deleted task ...
Added tag ...
```

You can also verify success by running:

```bash id="s24xma"
node cli.js list
```

or:

```bash id="xk6vhu"
node cli.js show <task_id>
```

---

## How do I know if an error is my fault or a program problem?

Usually:

### User Errors

These happen because of invalid input.

Examples:

```text id="jz7gdi"
Task not found.
Invalid date format.
```

These are normal and can usually be fixed by:

* Checking task IDs
* Fixing spelling
* Using the correct date format

---

### Program Errors

These are more technical.

Examples:

```text id="6u0e4g"
Cannot find module
SyntaxError
EACCES
Unexpected token
```

These usually mean:

* Missing dependencies
* Corrupted files
* Installation problems
* Permission issues

---

# Troubleshooting

## Why do I see "Task not found"?

Possible reasons:

* The task ID is incorrect
* The task was already deleted
* You copied only part of the ID incorrectly

Fix:

Run:

```bash id="0p1g59"
node cli.js list
```

and copy the correct task ID.

---

## Why does nothing happen after I run a command?

Possible reasons:

* You typed the command incorrectly
* You are not inside the project folder
* Node.js is not installed

Check:

```bash id="hq4lfn"
node -v
```

If Node.js is installed, you should see a version number.

---

## Why do I get "Cannot find module"?

This usually means dependencies are missing.

Run:

```bash id="lp7zb6"
npm install
```

---

## Why are my tasks missing?

Possible causes:

* `tasks.json` was deleted
* The file became corrupted
* The application cannot access the file

Check whether `tasks.json` exists in your project folder.

---

## Why are tasks not saving?

Possible causes:

* File permissions
* Corrupted JSON
* Disk write issues

Try:

1. Closing the app
2. Backing up `tasks.json`
3. Deleting the corrupted file
4. Restarting the application

---

## What should I do if I think the program is broken?

Try these steps:

1. Restart the terminal
2. Run `npm install`
3. Check for typing mistakes
4. Verify task IDs
5. Confirm dates use `YYYY-MM-DD`
6. Run:

```bash id="mbavp0"
node cli.js --help
```

If the problem continues, it may be a program issue rather than a user error.

---

# Helpful Tips

## Always verify commands

After changing tasks, use:

```bash id="v7rby4"
node cli.js list
```

to confirm the command worked.

---

## Use copy and paste for task IDs

Typing IDs manually can cause mistakes.

---

## Back up your tasks

You can make a backup copy of your task data:

```bash id="s95a1q"
cp tasks.json tasks_backup.json
```

---

# Summary

The easiest way to confirm commands worked is to:

1. Look for a success message
2. Run `node cli.js list`
3. Verify the task appears or changes correctly

Most errors are simple user input issues and can be fixed by:

* Checking task IDs
* Using the correct command format
* Verifying dates
* Running commands from the correct folder

@end
